everybody Matt from Eastwood company as
you get into heavy fabrication there's
going to be a time that you're going to
find yourself needing a chassis table
these are great for building your own
chassis from scratch or even doing
modifications or repair to a chassis
where you need a really flat surface
that you can also fixture to I looked
around on the web and I went to a bunch
of different friends shops to check out
their chassis tables
I saw everything from the most wild all
the way down to something so simple that
they were basically just using jack
stands I decided to put all those ideas
together and come up with a design that
would fit my needs most important thing
was it needed to be mobile and needed to
be able to adjust the height so I could
get everything exactly how I wanted and
really level you can see I have the
design laid out here of basically how
it's going to look and we have our
casters and we also have some feet that
are adjustable that raise the table up
up front the material that we're using
is pretty heavy and we're going to be
doing a lot of welding that's why I
chose the Eastwood MIG 250 to be the
workhorse for this project now the
design is pretty simple and everything
should go together pretty easily but
we're going to show you some tips and
tricks along the way so let's get
started
almost no shop floors are completely
flat we decided to build each half of
the table on top of each other to take
out some of the inconsistencies in the
floor
we started by squaring up the first
corner of the table and also check to
make sure the seam was flat and we clamp
the beams together here's a tip cut
yourself a small stack of sheet metal
squares and a few different thicknesses
to shim your table so that it is level
we first place them under the level
until we found the correct amount of
shims we then relocated them to under
the appropriate corner
once the first corner was square and
level we tack welded the seam together
after the first few tack welds we check
to make sure the parts hadn't moved with
the heat of the welds because we left
our clamps in place the parts were still
square and we could finish tack welding
around the beams
we prepared the next two beams and
sanded any proud welds or weld spatter
down from the first two so that we could
use them for a flat base to build off of
next square up the other half and use
the metal shims to level the beams out
then we repeated the tack welding
process and secured the last two beams
together for the second half of the
perimeter of the table
the two halves were set up on square box
tubing to try and build off of a more
uniform surface again we then went
around to the two other seams and made
them square and level two the rest of
the table and tack welded them together
with the perimeter frame built we
measured and Mark the center of where
each side of the center cross braces
would sit we then repeated the process
of squaring and leveling the cross
braces and tack welded them in place
with the top work surface tack welded
together and ground smooth we flip the
table over so we could weld the bottom
seams
we made the legs and overall table
height fairly short compared to a normal
fab table this is because we will be
building up on the table and we don't
want the project we're working on to be
too tall once it's on top of the table
we install the legs to the top of them
were flush with the top work surface and
we welded them in place
next we installed heavy 3/8 plate to the
bottom of the legs that the casters and
feet could be attached to
with the plates installed we welded the
wheel and feet base plates to the legs
as you can see the table rolls easily on
the fore center casters and is lifted up
off of the wheels once you step on the
fee you can then adjust the feet with a
wrench to level it out and drop the
table back down by stepping on the
release buttons
so there you have it our table is
finished and we're ready to start on our
first project a job like this requires a
lot of continuous heavy welding and the
MIG 250 with its 60 percent duty cycle
at 250 amps and its ability to weld up
to half-inch steel was more than up to
the task for more tech videos make sure
you subscribe to our YouTube channel and
to keep up with the latest eastwood news
make sure you like us on facebook and
visit eastwood.com so you can do the job
right
you